# James C. Reboulet
## Self-Evaluation
I will start with the positives first in my role in this project. During the fall, I contributed to most of the portions of the assignment. I participated in writing the user stories, organizing the task list and in the writing of timeline and effort matrix. I briefly assisted in constructing the design diagram, but most of that work was attributed to Wayne and Deion. In the spring semester, most of my work was in the design of the source-code viewer window within the Dear-ImGui-based-user-interface portion of the final software. I also made many contributions to the user manual and the FAQ portions of the user manual.
During the process, I feel that I enhanced my skills at using a different type of GUI. I had never used an immediate type of GUI before. My experience has been in using a Java Swing GUI and I had limited experience with coding the GUI in NX during my experience. However, many aspects of the GUI in NX involved calling methods and reusing classes and objects in which the intricate details had already been coded. I had never actually worked within the C-code of the Windows environment before, and I gained some experience with the Win32 API during my experience in designing the source-code viewer.
However, as I must mention, things turned out to be much harder during this semester than I had expected. I decided to take a compiler’s course at the same time as the senior design course, and between that, my other co-op community course and this course, I had to dedicate a great deal of my time trying to simply obtain a “C” in the compiler’s course. This involved hand-rolling a compiler in C++ which we were graded on the results – I managed to complete scanning, parsing, and semantic analysis and partial LLVM intermediate-code generation, but I only managed to fully complete scanning, parsing, and semantic analysis. Thus, as a result of the time I had to spend in the compiler’s course, I was not able to dedicate as much time to the team with regard to completing more of the final project. I participated and scheduled the Zoom meetings which lasted about 5 hours in total and worked with Wayne and Deion to record our Expo presentations, and I contributed to writing the test plan, but the PDB design and many of the other ImGui windows were completed by Wayne. Of course, everyone had time constraints and with all of the errors that we experienced and due to the poor documentation on creating debuggers in general, using ImGui and due to our limited time, I wish that I could have contributed more than I did to this project. I will say, though that it was successful in that it was a great learning experience and it will hopefully help me in my future development career and it informed me on which skills I should attempt to increase my skills in.