**Deion Booher** Individual Capstone Assessment.

From an academic perspective, our senior design project is about developing our understanding of a core principle of programming along with a few other skills. That core aspect is the debugger, it does so much for us and yet I do not have even a decent understanding of it. I hope that by the end of this project, I will have a fundamental understanding of how the debugger works, and in turn be able to implement one with that newfound knowledge. I hope to learn how to read and understand assembly code better, as my understanding of this is also very poor. It will be very useful to see/have all the debugger code without a whole bunch of other code and functions mixed in. Aside from those two key parts, I hope to learn more about user interface and how to apply it in a way that is suitable to a user.

On the academic side, there are multiple classes I have taken that I will find useful for our senior design project. In general, all my classes have taught me some fundamental skills such as reading/writing code and how to use some ides. Some classes that taught me general programming skills are CS2021C-Computer Science, CS2021-Python Programming, CS2028C-Data structures, and CS3003-Programming Languages. These skills will be used throughout this entire project, no matter which part I am working on. Classes that taught me a bit about assembly are also very useful in this case. These classes are EECE4029-OS and System Programming. EECE3093-Software Engineering and ENGL4092-Technical Writing will help me in designing and writing up all the documents for my senior design project.  Lastly, I am currently taking CS5167-User Interface which will help me design the user interface to be more friendly and conventional for user.

On the experience side, there are many lessons I have learned from my Coop experiences thus far that I have no doubt will prove invaluable. I have cooped with Kinetic Vision 2 times as a Software Developer, Emerson Climate Technologies as an IT Technician for 1 semester and a IT/OT Systems Engineer for 1 semester, and Edaptive Computing, Inc. as a Software Developer. My coops as Kinetic Vision helped start to understand programming and was my first time ever using a debugger, which I found invaluable at the time. This will help me a lot as I still remember how useful it was when I first found it and the things I really struggled with. Hopefully, I will be able to alleviate some of these with our debugger. My IT coop at Emerson taught me a lot about how users can interact with software, whether it be the intended way or not. This knowledge will help me to build an interface that is conveniently simple while still providing all the necessary tools. My IT/OT Systems Engineering coop taught me a lot about what users expect from data, and discrepancies that can arise when comparing data that should be the same but is using two different languages. This information can help me make a more informed decision about how to display or manipulate data for our user. My Software Developer coop at Edaptive taught me the most about debuggers and general programming by far, and I hope to be able to take what I learned about debuggers from there and apply it to our project. 

I am very excited to be a part of this project because I lack an understanding the debugger at the most basic level and this is detrimental to my efficiency when programming. I look forward to understanding how the internals of a debugger works and being able to work my way around one confidently and knowing what is happening. I found Malcolm’s Idea of creating a lightweight debugger intriguing. I see that getting it to work on multiple operating systems could be an interesting challenge to tackle, and it would teach me a bit about portability between OS’s and how to navigate this. This debugger could also allow me to use it without having to install another whole IDE with it or install a heavy application. This would let me make quick and simple checks on my code, increasing the speed at which I could pull up and write small one-off scripts.

I expect us to have two major accomplishments by the end our senior design project. The first one is to learn the fundamentals of how a debugger works and understand how it is working behind the scenes. The second is to use that acquired knowledge to learn how to create a debugger and do so. My process for starting this project is to do the required research into what makes a debugger tick, then investigate how I may be able to replicate that for a standalone version. I understand that this will likely be a long process, meaning I will be trying to learn about debuggers before the second semester comes around, so I am ready to get into it. I will be satisfied with the results if I have learned how a debugger works, and we have made something that is at least passable as a debugger for the input program.

