# Final Assessment
My individual contribution to this project mainly consisted of researching UI and working on the UI side along with some reviewing. I would say that I have learned a good bit about different UI frameworks such as ImGUI (the one we are using due to it working well across OS’s), QT, PyQT and some basic info on some other frameworks. I also learned quite a bit about how to tackle making a program work on multiple OS’s, which I had no idea how to do before.

I learned quite a bit from this project with the greatest takeaway being a better understanding of how debuggers work at a more internal level. This will greatly help me in the future because I will understand some of the issues that arise when I am working with debuggers. This was one of my biggest successes for this project, as well as what I struggled with the most. I did not contribute nearly as much to the core of the program as Malcolm did but got to learn a lot from him as he would explain what he was doing over discord when I was watching him work on it. This project also taught me a lot about the importance of creating user stories and have a design plan to work off of from the start, which was extremely helpful through the duration of out project.

In the end, although we did not achieve our full goal due to setbacks and misjudgment of how long it would take to learn debuggers and parsing though the pdb files, we did manage to get the project to a point where you could attach to a running program, see information about the program, and set a working breakpoint within your process. (process being your program file)  A lot of the core and heavyweight areas were done mainly by Malcolm and some by James, while my areas were more UI focused and frontend based. 
